Using ``brabeion``
==================

``brabeion`` works by allowing you to define your badges as subclasses of a
common ``Badge`` class and registering them with ``brabeion``.  For example if
your site gave users points, and you wanted to award three ranks of badges
based on how many points a user had your badge might look like this:
    
    from brabeion import badges
    from brabeion.base import Badge, BadgeAwarded
    
    
    class PointsBadge(Badge):
        slug = "points"
        levels = [
            "Bronze",
            "Silver",
            "Gold",
        ]
        events = [
            "points_awarded",
        ]
        multiple = False
        
        def award(self, **state):
            user = state["user"]
            points = user.get_profile().points
            if points > 10000:
                return BadgeAwarded(level=3)
            elif points > 7500:
                return BadgeAwarded(level=2)
            elif points > 5000:
                return BadgeAwarded(level=1)

    badges.register(PointsBadge)

The one important thing to note is that ``BadgeAwarded.level`` is 1-indexed.

Now that you have your ``PointsBadge`` class you need to be able to tell
``brabeion`` when to try to give it to a user.  To do this, any time a user
*might* have received a badge just call ``badges.possibly_award_badge`` with
the name of the event, and whatever state these events might need and
``brabeion`` will handle the details of seeing what badges need to be awarded
to the user::
    
    from brabeion import badges
    
    def my_view(request):
        if request.method == "POST":
            # do some things
            request.user.get_profile().award_points(15)
            badges.possibly_award_badge("points_awarded", user=request.user)
        # more view


By default badges will be awarded at the current time, if you need to overide
the award time of the badge you can pass a ``force_timestamp`` keyword argument
to ``possible_award_badge()``.

Asynchronous Badges
===================

If your ``Badge.award()`` method takes a long time to compute it often makes
sense to not actually call it during the request/response cycle, as this would
slow it down, and ``Badges`` rarely need to be awarded immediately.  To
facilitate this ``brabeion`` provides an ``async`` option ``Badges``.  When set
to true, instead of calculating whether the user should be awarded a badge
during the request/response cycle, the ``Badge`` being awarded will be queued
for later using ```celery`` <http://github.com/ask/celery>`_.  Because this
processing won't occur until later, if you need to provide additional state
(perhaps because the state that your ``Badge.award()`` method relies upon is
mutable) on asynchronous ``Badges`` you can define a ``freeze()`` method to add
additional state:

    class AddictBadge(Badge):
        # stuff
        async = True
        
        def freeze(self, **state):
            state["current_day"] = datetime.today()
            return state

In this example badge the user will be awarded it when they've visited the site
every day for a month, this is expensive to calculate so it will be done
outside the request/response cycle.  However, what happens if they visit the
site right before midnight, and then the ``award()`` method isn't actually
called until the next day?  Using the freeze method you can provide additional
state for use with asynchronous badges.
